# Onchain Verification: Setup

The best way to get started with verifying SP1 proofs on-chain is to refer to the [SP1 Project Template](https://github.com/succinctlabs/sp1-project-template/tree/main).

- The template [program](https://github.com/succinctlabs/sp1-project-template/blob/main/program/src/main.rs) shows how to write outputs that can be decoded in Solidity.
- The template [script](https://github.com/succinctlabs/sp1-project-template/blob/main/script/src/bin/prove.rs) shows how to generate the proof using the SDK and save it to a file.
- The template [contract](https://github.com/succinctlabs/sp1-project-template/blob/main/contracts/src/Fibonacci.sol) shows how to verify the proof onchain using Solidity.

Refer to the section on [Contract Addresses](./contract-addresses.md#contract-addresses) for the addresses of the deployed verifiers.

## Generating SP1 Proofs for Onchain Verification

By default, the proofs generated by SP1 are not verifiable onchain, as they are non-constant size and STARK verification on Ethereum is very expensive. To generate a proof that can be verified onchain, we use performant STARK recursion to combine SP1 shard proofs into a single STARK proof and then wrap that in a SNARK proof. Our `ProverClient` has a prover option for this called `plonk`. Behind the scenes, this function will first generate a normal SP1 proof, then recursively combine all of them into a single proof using the STARK recursion protocol. Finally, the proof is wrapped in a SNARK proof using PLONK.

> WARNING: The Groth16 and PLONK provers are only guaranteed to work on official releases of SP1. To
> use Groth16 or PLONK proving & verification locally, ensure that you have Docker installed and have
> at least 128GB of RAM.

### Example

```rust,noplayground
{{#include ../../examples/fibonacci/script/bin/groth16_bn254.rs}}
```

You can run the above script with `RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin groth16_bn254 --release` in `examples/fibonacci/script`.

#### Using Groth16 and PLONK without Docker (Advanced)

If you would like to run the Groth16 or PLONK prover directly without Docker, you must have Go 1.22 installed and enable the `native-gnark` feature in `sp1-sdk`. This path is not recommended and may require additional native dependencies.

```toml
sp1-sdk = { version = "2.0.0", features = ["native-gnark"] }
```
