# Proof Types

There are a few different types of proofs that can be generated by the SP1 zkVM. Each proof type has its own tradeoffs in terms of proof generation time, verification cost, and proof size.

The `ProverClient` follows a "builder" pattern that allows you to configure the proof type and other options after creating a `ProverClient` and calling `prove` on it.

For a full list of options, see the following [docs](https://docs.rs/sp1-sdk/1.2.0/sp1_sdk/action/struct.Prove.html).

## Core (Default)

The default prover mode generates a list of STARK proofs that in aggregate have size proportional to
the size of the execution. Use this in settings where you don't care about **verification cost / proof size**.

```rust,noplayground
let client = ProverClient::new();
client.prove(&pk, stdin).run().unwrap();
```

## Compressed

The compressed prover mode generates STARK proofs that have constant size. Use this in settings where you
care about **verification cost / proof size**. This is useful for applications where you want to recursively verify SP1 proofs within SP1 (see the [proof aggregation](../writing-programs/proof-aggregation.md) section).

```rust,noplayground
let client = ProverClient::new();
client.prove(&pk, stdin).compressed().run().unwrap();
```

## Groth16 (testnet only)

<div class="warning">
WARNING: Groth16 proofs are currently only verifiable on testnets & are not production-ready
</div>

<div class="warning">
WARNING: The Groth16 prover requires around 64GB of RAM and are only guaranteed to work on official releases of SP1. We recommend using the prover network to generate these proofs.
</div>

The Groth16 prover mode generate a SNARK proof with extremely small proof size and low verification cost.
This mode generates proofs that can be verified onchain for around ~270k gas.

```rust,noplayground
let client = ProverClient::new();
client.prove(&pk, stdin).groth16().run().unwrap();
```

## PLONK

<div class="warning">
WARNING: The PLONK prover requires around 64GB of RAM and are only guaranteed to work on official releases of SP1. We recommend using the prover network to generate these proofs.
</div>

The Groth16 and PLONK prover modes generate a SNARK proof with extremely small proof size and low verification cost.
This mode generates proofs that can be verified onchain for around ~300k gas.

```rust,noplayground
let client = ProverClient::new();
client.prove(&pk, stdin).plonk().run().unwrap();
```
